Now that you know a bit more about bean validation and
the built-in constraints annotation,
let's go back to the IDE and constrain our code.
To be sure that we insert and process valid data,
we will add some constraints to the book entity attributes,
but also to the book repository method parameters.
We will, of course, change our test accordingly to test different scenarios.
Okay let's start with our test,
so we go back to the BookRepositoryTest and we create a new test method.
I'm going to call it createInvalidBook.
So this method will create a book with a title null.
We don't want to have books with null titles in the database.
So here copy/paste and instead of a title I put null.
So if I run this test, I'm inserting a book with a null title in the database,
it passes and I don't want that.
I don't want to be able to persist a book with a null title.
So let's go to our Book entity and add bean validation's annotation.
So typically the title, we want it NotNull,
and with a size of minimum 1 and a maximum of 200.
Let's do the same for the description.
So we copy/paste it.
It can be null, but if it's not we want its size to be between 1 and 10000.
Unit_cost, also a minimum price of the book can be $1, what else can we do?
Isbn, very important.
An isbn cannot be null.
And its size has to be between 1 and 50.
Let's add one more constraint, past, yeah.
A publicationDate has to be made in the past.
So if we go back to our test and run it,
now we have put NotNull on the book title,
good.
The test fails.
Could not commit transaction,
so the Entity Manager tried to do a persist and JTA rolled back.
So we just change our test and say we expect an exception.
Good, now the test is green because it has an exception.
Let's do the same, but now for the BookRepository.
The BookRepository has a few methods that take a parameter,
such as find takes an Id, we want this book Id to be NotNull.
Same for the create book,
we want the parameter book to be NotNull and same for delete.
Let's go back to our test and add a new test.
Again the test should fail and accept an exception and this test
will try to find a book passing a null Id,
so I'm calling this method findWithInvalidId.
So we just take the bookRepository, call the method find,
passing a null, this should fail because of the validation on the find method,
therefore it throws an exception, therefore the test should be green.
Perfect.
Now we have three tests and they are all green.
Let's commit out code.
So in this module we've changed the Book entity,
the BookRepository with annotations, and we added two more tests. Let's change the commit message so it's clearer, validation, and Commit.